With an eye to expansion, Glossika is constantly innovating and developing new features that improve the learning process. One potential future feature would utilize machine-learning models in Amazon SageMaker to analyze audio files hosted on Glossika. This analysis would generate two colored lines above the text of a given sentence: one color showing the intonation of the native speaker’s recording and another showing the intonation of a user's uploaded recording. This information would let users see where their rhythm and intonation diverge from the native speaker’s. Learners can use the analysis to independently assess their speaking ability in any target language, helping them to improve their pronunciation and allowing them to more objectively assess how natural they sound.
Français
Campbell elaborates, “Our algorithm considers several factors such as how recently a student learned certain information and how well they’re retaining it. If they just learned a structure yesterday or are struggling to replicate the sentence independently, students will see that structure more frequently.”  
While Glossika works with professional translators and voice actors to produce content, Viva crowdsources this information from users around the world who record and document their native languages in Glossika’s database. Participants who upload recordings of their language not only help preserve lesser-known languages and dialects, but also earn a share of the subscription revenue generated from learners studying that language.  
Español
From Glossika’s experience, approximately 50,000 total sentence repetitions are necessary to “graduate” from the program and it takes a typical learner approximately 300 hours to achieve this. 
Overview | Opportunity | Solution | Benefits | AWS Services Used 
Preserving Less-Spoken Dialects with Viva Project 
日本語
 Amazon CloudFront is a content delivery network (CDN) service built for high performance, security, and developer convenience.   Learn more »
  Contact Sales 
 2022
In addition to scaling its business to add more users in more countries, Glossika recently launched a beta version of its Viva project to expand Glossika’s content offerings and preserve endangered and/or “minorized” languages such as Gaelic and Hakka. 
 Amazon S3
Campbell says, “The stability of AWS services is excellent. With active paying users in 148 countries, this is especially important for us. With AWS, we’re confident that our users have a reliable experience on our app no matter where they’re located.”
한국어
To serve its global customers, Glossika relies on Amazon CloudFront as a content delivery network. The company is headquartered in Taiwan, but most of its customers live in the United States or Europe. To manage incoming traffic from around the world, its engineers built high-availability architecture using Elastic Load Balancing.
Organizations of all sizes across all industries are transforming their businesses and delivering on their missions every day using AWS. Contact our experts and start your own AWS journey today.
 
 Benefits
Customer Stories / Education 
 Get Started
 AWS Services Used
Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is an object storage service offering industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance. 
Glossika is an online learning site and mobile app that uses adaptive learning algorithms to offer customized content based on a student’s language proficiency level, learning progress, and interests. Michael Campbell, chief executive officer and founder of Glossika, says, “We focus on efficiency and aim to streamline the learning process as much as possible. We use adaptive learning algorithms to determine when previously learned content should be reviewed. This ensures that more study time is spent practicing things users struggle with and less on repeating things they’ve already mastered.”
中文 (繁體)
Bahasa Indonesia
Michael Campbell CEO and Founder, Glossika 
Glossika is an education technology company whose application uses common sentence structures to train people to understand and speak more than 60 languages. Serving customers in 148 countries, Glossika curates content to match users’ preferences and ability, making learning more efficient.  
Ρусский
• Serves customers in 148 countries with low-latency content delivery • Stores textual and audio data of more than 350,000 sentences and translations • Stores over 25 million user-uploaded audio recordings • Scales infrastructure to accommodate growing user base • Saves human and financial resources with automation on the cloud • Manages global incoming traffic to maintain high uptime 
عربي
中文 (简体)
Glossika started out producing language learning books and transitioned to an online model in 2017, followed by a mobile app in 2022. Upon going digital, Glossika chose Amazon Web Services (AWS) to build its IT infrastructure. Sheena Chen, chief operations officer at Glossika, says, “As a company striving for worldwide product adoption, we need cloud technology that can scale with us. AWS makes it easy to purchase the infrastructure we need right now and to adjust as we expand. AWS is also feature-rich and highly configurable, with an intuitive user console—all of which facilitates our growth as a startup in a sustainable way.” 
Solution  
 Overview
Amazon ElastiCache for Redis is a blazing fast in-memory data store that provides sub-millisecond latency to power internet-scale real-time applications.   Learn more »
 About Company
Glossika’s users continue to offer praise for the application as well. One learner comments, “Nothing else combines comprehensible natural audio input and active language production with nearly the same amount of practice as Glossika; every session is challenging, but always comprehensible and rewarding.”
Türkçe
 Amazon ElastiCache for Redis
Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) is a collection of managed services that makes it simple to set up, operate, and scale databases in the cloud.   Learn more »
English
According to the Foreign Service Institute, where employees working in the US foreign affairs community receive training, it takes 600–2,200 class hours to learn a foreign language. These figures vary based on the complexity of the language relative to English, and are also affected by a given learner’s ability, past experience, and exposure to the target language. However, most teachers tend to apply a one-size-fits-all approach in designing curriculum, which may not be suited to every student's learning needs.
 Amazon Relational Database Service
 Glossika Builds Language-Learning Platform on AWS to Serve Users in 148 Countries
Glossika’s application works by organizing sentences according to the type of grammar/syntax they contain and how well a user is retaining them. At present, Glossika has uploaded about 6,000 unique sentences per language for learners to practice, and the company expects that figure to double in the next 2–3 years. Glossika uses Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) with autoscaling enabled to store more than 350,000 sentences and their translations, Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) to store over 25 million user-uploaded audio recordings of sentences cost-effectively, and Amazon ElastiCache for Redis as a low-latency caching service. Its adaptive learning algorithms run on Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances. 
Glossika has big plans for its global business and will continue to rely on AWS as its cloud provider in the next phase of its journey. Chen concludes, “AWS is reliable and easy to use. Because AWS has efficiently taken care of server- and security-related issues, our engineers have been able to focus completely on product development since day one. We look forward to growing our business further on AWS.”
Deutsch
Opportunity
Glossika currently serves customers in 148 countries who are learning over 60 different languages. Its courses guide users through a massive database of sentences in their target language(s). Sentences gradually increase in difficulty and are accompanied by recordings from native speakers. Users can make adjustments to each course in accordance with their preferences. For instance, someone interested in learning Japanese to read manga comics could choose to not practice sentences about working in an office.  
Tiếng Việt
With AWS, we’re confident that our users have a reliable experience on our app no matter where they’re located.” 
Italiano
ไทย
Curating Content to Match User Preferences
 Amazon CloudFront
Ensuring Uptime and Low Latency for Global Customers
Teaching through 6,000 Core Sentence Structures 
Learn more »
Glossika built its language learning platform on AWS to ensure low latency for users in 148 countries and access to on-demand compute and storage as it expands. Glossika is an education technology company that uses syntax-sorted and customized content to train people to understand and speak foreign languages. The startup uses Amazon RDS to store lesson data, Amazon ElastiCache for Redis for caching, and Amazon CloudFront as a content delivery network.  
Adding ML Analysis to Improve Rhythm and Intonation
Português