Français
           2023 
Español
日本語
Customer Stories / Retail & Wholesale 
 Get Started
한국어
Organizations of all sizes across all industries are transforming their businesses and delivering on their missions every day using AWS. Contact our experts and start your own AWS journey today.
 
Razer, the world’s leading lifestyle brand for gamers, wanted to provide personalized hardware recommendations across a number of different applications and data domains to deepen engagement across its growing number of gamers. The company was keen to test the possibilities of machine learning (ML). However, as a small team, it posed a challenge when it needed to maintain the infrastructure that supports and scales the appropriate resources for training and inferencing a recommendation model, all while being accurate and applicable across multiple business domains. Razer turned to Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a solution and used Amazon Personalize intelligent user segmentation and advanced filtering features. Click-through rates for Razer Synapse, its unified cloud-based hardware configuration tool, were 10x better than industry standards using Amazon Personalize, generating additional revenue for the business. 
         
 AWS Services Used
中文 (繁體)
Bahasa Indonesia
  Contact Sales 
Ρусский
Hong Jie Wee Big Data Lead, Razer, Inc. 
عربي
中文 (简体)
 
 About Razer
Amazon Personalize allows developers to quickly build and deploy curated recommendations and intelligent user segmentation at scale using machine learning (ML). 
Türkçe
English
 Amazon Personalize
 Razer Deepened Gamer Engagement Using Amazon Personalize
Deutsch
Tiếng Việt
Italiano
ไทย
Implementing personalized recommendations in Razer Synapse has enabled us to see a click-through-rate 10x better than industry standards, generating additional revenue for the business. Leveraging ML and Amazon Personalize made it easier and more convenient for us to maintain a personalization system.” 
Learn how Razer built and maintained a robust personalization engine to keep gamers engaged using Amazon Personalize.
Razer is a leading lifestyle brand for gamers. With a fan base that spans every continent, the company has designed and built a gamer-focused marketplace of hardware, software, and services. 
Learn more »
Português