Elke Van Santvliet, Machine Learning Expert, Tangent Works 
Français
Many companies struggle to realize benefits from the information they hold about their operations and customers. The shortage of data scientists, who have the skills to analyze data to get useful insights, makes this problem even more difficult to solve.
Speeds up customer onboarding 
In competitive markets, making good decisions based on insights derived from machine learning can be the difference between success and failure. Tangent Works brings these advanced analytics capabilities within the reach of every organization. “Using AWS, we help businesses realize the benefits of machine learning. And they don’t need a dedicated data science team to do it,” says Van Santvliet. 
Español
Tangent Works helps customers across a wide range of sectors use TIM to improve their operations. For example, retailers more accurately forecast consumer demand based on historical sales data combined with weather forecasts. Utility companies plan their maintenance schedules taking into account seasonal changes. Energy providers predict consumer usage to keep equipment running at peak efficiency. And financial services firms employ TIM’s anomaly detection to automate credit card fraud detection and rapidly build models in response to new threat types.
To manage customer workloads, Tangent Works uses Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS), a fully managed container service for Kubernetes applications, and AWS Fargate, a serverless, pay-as-you-go compute engine that automates server management. It also uses Amazon RDS for PostgreSQL, which makes it easy for Tangent Works staff to set up, operate, and scale PostgreSQL deployments in the cloud.
As a young company with a small IT team, Tangent Works turned to Amazon Web Services (AWS) to provide an efficient way to launch its services, manage clients’ compute and storage needs, and support its rapid growth. Using AWS, staff are able to focus on product development rather than infrastructure maintenance, and Tangent Works can dynamically and cost-effectively scale resources to meet variable customer demand. 
日本語
Tangent Works provides technology that automates the machine learning modeling process so companies can make better use of their data. Founded in 2014, Tangent Works has offices across Europe and in the US. 
 Creating AI Models in Seconds Instead of Weeks
AWS Fargate is a serverless, pay-as-you-go compute engine that lets you focus on building applications without managing servers. AWS Fargate is compatible with both Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) and Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS). 
 Get Started
한국어
 Powering IoT with Siemens Digital Industries Software
Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS) is a managed container service to run and scale Kubernetes applications in the cloud or on-premises.
 
 AWS Fargate
Cuts staff time spent on infrastructure management
The large quantities of data generated by Internet of Things (IoT) systems makes this an ideal use case for Tangent Works technology. TIM provides specialized capabilities for businesses using IoT, including sensor monitoring and anomaly detection. The system is also capable of analyzing failures to improve its predictive abilities.
Belgium-based Tangent Works provides businesses with a fast, affordable way to derive value from their data. Its technology helps customers automate the machine learning modeling process so they can easily perform complex analysis to drive smarter decision-making.
 AWS Services Used
 Scaling to Support Rapid Growth
Build with powerful services and platforms, and the broadest machine learning framework support anywhere. 
中文 (繁體)
Bahasa Indonesia
Builds AI models in seconds not weeks
Ρусский
عربي
Learn more »
 About Tangent Works
中文 (简体)
 Making Good Decisions Based on Machine Learning
Tangent Works partnered with Siemens Digital Industries Software to integrate TIM technology into Siemens’ MindSphere product, an industrial IoT-as-a-service solution. MindSphere customers now have a single dashboard through which they can analyze IoT data, and business users can develop their own data models. This gives them a better understanding of their operations and helps them make smarter decisions as a result. “Thanks to Tangent Works and the ability to use AI and machine learning to automate predictive analytics, even citizen data scientists can easily analyze data and get immediate insights at scale,” says Raymond Kok, senior vice president of cloud application solutions at Siemens Digital Industries Software. “This puts the power of IoT data in the hands of every user.” 
2022
 Benefits of AWS
The company’s Tangent Information Modeler (TIM) technology—which provides customers with bespoke artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities—delivers the accuracy of manual modeling in a fraction of the time. This means organizations save money both on the staff resources required to create the models and the compute resources needed to run them. “Using AWS, we can instantly scale compute capacity when clients build new models or apply existing models,” says Elke Van Santvliet, machine learning expert at Tangent Works. “Our customers can create models in a few seconds or minutes—this would have taken weeks before. And it’s cost-effective because we pay only for the resources we use.”  
Because models are easy to update and run, customers can adjust them regularly, to keep business insights fresh. For instance, retailers can amend the predicted performance and stock requirements of each shop every week, or manufacturers can instantly build a new model when a shop-floor process changes.
Türkçe
Using AWS, we help businesses realize the benefits of machine learning. And they don’t need a dedicated data science team to do it.” 
 Helping Customers Innovate
The team at Tangent Works is now developing ways to add automated modeling functions to existing AWS machine learning and visualization tools. It is also refining the company’s time series anomaly detection technology so it can be applied to the entire lifecycle of machine learning development and operations. This means the system would be able to monitor itself and automatically improve its own modeling, providing customers with faster access to data models.
English
 Amazon RDS for PostgreSQL
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) offers the broadest and deepest compute platform, with over 500 instances and choice of the latest processor, storage, networking, operating system, and purchase model to help you best match the needs of your workload. 
The beauty of Tangent Works’ tools is that they’re easy to use. Not only do they put powerful machine learning technology into the hands of business users, but they also help data scientists improve their productivity by reducing repetitive modeling tasks. 
Deutsch
Tiếng Việt
 Tangent Works Puts Machine Learning Modeling into Business Users’ Hands Using AWS
Italiano
ไทย
 Amazon EKS
Tangent Works is a fast-growing firm that’s always adding customers. And because many of these businesses already use AWS, it simplifies onboarding and collaboration. “Getting our clients up and running quickly means we’re able to grow rapidly,” says Van Santvliet. The company can easily scale its resources to run these increased workloads. Offering its services directly to customers on the AWS Marketplace has also supported growth. Tangent Works has shortened its sales cycles and won 5 enterprise customers in the last 2 months through the marketplace.
Tangent Works helps companies get more value from their time-series data by automating the machine learning modeling process. Its Tangent Information Modeler (TIM) technology makes artificial intelligence technology accessible and affordable to businesses that don’t have dedicated data science teams. Tangent Works used AWS to launch its services, manage customers’ compute and storage needs, and support its rapid growth. 
 Amazon EC2
Amazon RDS for PostgreSQL gives you access to the capabilities of the familiar PostgreSQL database engine. This means that the code, applications, and tools you already use today with your existing databases can be used with Amazon RDS. 
Eases integration with Siemens MindSphere 
Português
  Machine Learning on AWS