Hands-on learning
Meanwhile, the Career Day event that TCSG hosted provided valuable experience to students in the Cloud Academy. “Events like Career Day help employers connect with students for internships, apprenticeships, or even direct hire before they graduate,” says Ferguson. “The education-to-workforce pipeline that we have built is invaluable.” 
Français
in less than a year from 7 to 200 students across 10 colleges  
Learn from AWS experts. Advance your skills and knowledge. Build your future in the AWS Cloud. 
Español
 Real-world experiences
日本語
  Contact Sales 
 2022
TCSG built the TCSG Cloud Academy so that it could deliver virtual courses to potentially thousands of students from all 22 colleges. It engaged Amazon Web Services (AWS) to include valuable cloud learning content that would help students gain cloud computing expertise. In its first year, close to 200 students took cloud courses, and more than half of them earned a cloud-specific credential. 
The Technical College System of Georgia (TCSG) worked with AWS Education Programs to launch its virtual Cloud Academy, making cloud learning accessible regardless of location or IT setup. 
 Get Started
한국어
Overview | Opportunity | Solution | Outcome | AWS Services Used 
 
 AWS Educate
Customer Stories / Education 
Solution | Delivering Cloud Education in Diverse Forms
To promote the learning of in-demand skills and help students land jobs in a competitive workforce, the Technical College System of Georgia (TCSG) created the TCSG Cloud Academy, which helps address the state’s growing need for workers with cloud computing expertise. As the global cloud computing market continues to grow rapidly, Atlanta has become one of the most tech-forward cities in the United States, with over 125,000 cloud computing jobs available.
 AWS Services Used
中文 (繁體)
Bahasa Indonesia
AWS Academy’s ready-to-teach curriculum makes it easy for institutions to adopt and start teaching cloud computing right away. The time to market is the main advantage for us.”  
Steven Ferguson Chief Information Officer, TCSG 
Empowering higher education institutions to prepare students for industry-recognized certifications and careers in the cloud.  Learn more »
Ρусский
provided to students using AWS services 
عربي
 +200% growth 
中文 (简体)
 AWS Academy
 AWS Training and Certification
 Accessible education
 Overview
To connect those hands-on cloud experiences and the rest of the Cloud Academy curriculum to real-world jobs, TCSG collaborated with the AWS team in December 2021 to host a Career Day event that was attended by several major cloud computing employers. Students of the TCSG Cloud Academy could meet with prospective employers and gain practical insights into the in-demand cloud computing skills that these organizations want and that they would learn. 
Build your cloud skills at your own pace, on your own time, and completely for free.
Outcome | Expanding Cloud Learning to Even More Students
 Accelerated time-to-market
via career days with employers 
Türkçe
English
regardless of students’ IT setups 
Opportunity | Building Cloud Expertise for a Competitive Workforce
 About Technical College System of Georgia
One of the most important benefits of using AWS Academy is its ready-to-teach curriculum, which simplifies training educators, making it easy to scale the degree program. In fact, TCSG used this feature to scale its program across its colleges. In 1 year, TCSG grew its Cloud Academy from 7 students across 3 colleges to almost 200 students across 10 colleges. And because all the necessary course materials were included in AWS Academy, just 12 AWS educators were able to teach all 200 students. “AWS Academy’s ready-to-teach curriculum makes it easy for institutions to adopt and start teaching cloud computing right away,” says Steven Ferguson, chief information officer at TCSG. “The time to market is the main advantage for us.”
 TCSG Works with AWS Academy to Offer Digital Cloud Computing Credential to 22 Colleges
TCSG, in partnership with the Georgia Department of Education, plans to expand the TCSG Cloud Academy to 5,500 learners across Georgia by 2024. The agency also wants to include high schools that don’t already offer AWS courses to further promote cloud learning among the state’s future workforce.
with ready-to-teach curriculum from AWS Academy 
Deutsch
 In addition, TCSG’s Cloud Academy included AWS Academy Learner Labs—long-running hands-on lab environments where educators can bring their own assignments and invite their students to get experience using select AWS services. These labs cater to beginners as well as more experienced learners, and they make it simple for educators to assign projects, view students’ work spaces, and monitor course analytics in the cloud. With its new online program, TCSG can equip its students with in-demand skills for future careers in the cloud, such as cloud support associate, network technician, web development engineer, and cloud support engineer, among others. It has also improved the accessibility of its courses and cloud expertise in general by removing barriers like location, IT setup, and hardware access. TCSG is helping students enter a competitive workforce as educated cloud professionals and providing opportunities for success.
TCSG built its Cloud Academy using AWS Academy, which provides higher education institutions with a free, ready-to-teach cloud computing curriculum that prepares students to pursue industry-recognized certifications and in-demand cloud jobs. TCSG launched the TCSG Cloud Academy in two forms: one as a specialization within an existing associate’s degree and the second as a stand-alone technical certificate of credit. For the technical certificate of credit, students who have existing degrees can enter the curriculum to focus on cloud computing and participate in hands-on cloud experiences using AWS services. 
Tiếng Việt
Italiano
ไทย
The Technical College System of Georgia is the state government agency that supervises workforce development of more than 294,000 students across 22 technical colleges, 88 campuses, and more than 600 programs. 
Using the AWS curriculum and technology as the foundation for its courses, TCSG is preparing students to earn industry-recognized AWS Certifications to increase employability while improving accessibility to cloud education by offering the academy virtually and remotely. 
Learn more »
TCSG is the state of Georgia government agency that supervises workforce development of hundreds of thousands of students across 22 technical colleges, 88 campuses, and more than 600 programs. The agency aims to run a system of technical education using the latest technology that’s accessible to all adults and corporate citizens in the state. To develop and deploy its new cloud-focused curriculum, it worked with AWS Education Programs, which helps TCSG institutions develop initiatives that align education to careers in the cloud and promote student employability, preparing diverse learners for in-demand cloud roles around the world. In 2020, the organization officially launched the TCSG Cloud Academy—a virtual program for students pursuing expertise and certifications in cloud computing—on its eCampus virtual learning system.
Organizations of all sizes across all industries are transforming their businesses and delivering on their missions every day using AWS. Contact our experts and start your own AWS journey today.
Português