Graph Databases
Français
 ISO 27001 compliance
AWS is helping Voucherify follow its roadmap towards campaign automation and tighter targeting capabilities based on consumer behavior. Voucherify can now offer its clients increasingly sophisticated, rules-based loyalty benefits. For example, Voucherify clients can select customers who have been members of a particular program for a certain number of years. Or, promote special offers to those that have bought related products in the past, or at a certain time of year, or in a specific region.
With AWS, Voucherify has capitalized on this opportunity by building a business that runs personalized offers and loyalty campaigns at any scale. Its chief executive officer, Tomasz Pindel, says that alongside the benefits of security and the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and ISO 27001 compliance, having a single cloud provider like AWS means fewer vendor checks, more connectivity, faster access to new products, and a simplification of strategy thinking. AWS has helped the business optimize costs and support its moves into the next phase of the digital economy. For Voucherify, this means offering ever more sophisticated campaigns to its clients globally. 
Español
 Amazon EC2
Voucherify was pleasantly surprised and pleased at how hard the AWS account management team worked to optimize costs, even before signing an enterprise agreement, where discounts would have been part of the deal. “We felt we had friends and partners on our journey, says Pindel, not just a supplier.”
日本語
 2022
Graph databases are purpose-built to store and navigate relationships. Relationships are first-class citizens in graph databases, and most of the value of graph databases is derived from these relationships. Graph databases use nodes to store data entities, and edges to store relationships between entities.  Learn more »
 Get Started
한국어
Overview | Opportunity | Solution | Outcome | AWS Services Used 
We felt we had friends and partners on our journey, not just suppliers.” 
 
Voucherify finds that having a single cloud provider simplifies its strategy and planning. It saves time when it comes to vendor checks and applying security measures, because everything is connected. “Using AWS, it’s easy to link everything together, you spend less time and effort on interoperability,” says Tomasz Pindel, chief executive officer and co-founder, Voucherify. “None of these benefits are small things in business terms. They all make a real difference.”
Amazon MSK makes it easy to ingest and process streaming data in real time with fully managed Apache Kafka.  Learn more »
Voucherify understood that having a single, recognized cloud vendor was a big advantage in terms of regulation and compliance, as well as giving clients assurances over security. So, it chose to work with Amazon Web Services (AWS) and began to migrate its operations to the cloud.
reduced IT cost as migration allowed for better resource utilization
 AWS Services Used
 Amazon MSK
中文 (繁體)
Bahasa Indonesia
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) offers the broadest and deepest compute platform, with over 500 instances and choice of the latest processor, storage, networking, operating system, and purchase model to help you best match the needs of your workload.  
 EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) compliance
  Contact Sales 
Ρусский
Customer Stories / Software & Internet 
عربي
中文 (简体)
Organizations of all sizes across all industries are transforming their businesses and delivering on their missions every day using AWS. Contact our experts and start your own AWS journey today.
Learn more »
 Overview
 Voucherify Lets Businesses Build Smarter Brand Loyalty Programs
Türkçe
English
 Amazon RDS
Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) is a collection of managed services that makes it simple to set up, operate, and scale databases in the cloud.  Learn more »
Moving to AWS has opened Voucherify’s products to ISO 27001 certificate and enterprise-grade features without spikes in the IT costs. Additionally, the migration allowed for better resource utilization, reducing IT costs by 30 percent. 
But as the company grew fast and picked up larger clients, it stopped to reconsider how it sourced and managed technology. If it wanted to serve its clients effectively, it needed to expand its technology setup.
Founded by three IT professionals in 2013, Poland-based Voucherify provides an API-first engine promotion software that gives marketers and developers the tools to implement, manage, and track targeted promotional campaigns at any scale.  
AWS ran graph database workshops to educate and train the Voucherify team. New possibilities and ideas opened up following the training. The company learned how to generate new insights and build a 360-degree view of end users to help make future service improvements. “We’re looking at the future,” says Pindel. “More A/B testing, personalization, sophistication, and automation. We’re excited by the possibilities.”
Deutsch
 About Voucherify
Tiếng Việt
Today, Voucherify’s customers number 350 businesses in Europe, APAC, and the US and it has become a member of the MACH Alliance, a not-for-profit body that advocates for open and best-of-breed enterprise technology ecosystems. The founders wanted to maintain control of the company and decided not to accept external funding. Voucherify has remained independent since its early days.
Italiano
ไทย
The business was started as a software company in 2013 by three engineers who wanted to provide companies with the tools necessary to build their own outbound promotion programs and brand loyalty products. The developers had witnessed first-hand the trouble clients had with existing, non-developer friendly services and saw an opportunity.
Tomasz Pindel Chief Executive Officer and Co-founder, Voucherify 
 30%
We all love a bargain or a special offer. And we appreciate it when our loyalty to a brand is rewarded—even if we don’t think about the technology and enterprise involved behind-the-scenes at loyalty programs.
Poland-based Voucherify provides an API-first engine for such programs. It gives marketers and developers a set of flexible building blocks to implement, manage, and track targeted promotional campaigns at any scale.
Português